[MUSIC]
We now have experience fitting regression
models when the response is continuous,
and when it is binary.
What about when we have count data?
We could fit a linear normal regression,
but here we have a couple of drawbacks.
First of all,
counts usually aren't negative.
And the variances might not be constant.
The Poisson distribution provides
a natural likelihood for count data.
We can write the basic model, as yi,
given lambda i,
is independent from the Poisson
distribution, with mean lambda i.
Here, lambda conveniently
represents the expected value of y.
It turns out that lambda
is also the variance of y.
So if we expect a count to be higher,
we also expect the variability
in counts to go up.
We saw this earlier with
the warp breaks data.
If we model the mean directly,
like we did with linear regression.
That is, we had the expected value yi was
directly modelled with this linear form.
We would run into the same problem
we did with logistic regression.
The expected value has to be greater
than zero in the Poisson distribution.
To naturally deal with that restriction,
we're going to use
the logarithmic link function.
So, the log link.
That is, that the log of lambda i is
equal to this linear piece right here.
From this, we can easily recover
the expression for the mean itself.
That is, we can invert this link function
to get the expected value of yi,
which just happens to be lambda i,
which is e to the beta not
plus beta 1x 1i.
It might seem like this model is
equivalent to fitting a normal linear
regression to the log of y.
But there are a few key differences.
In the normal regression, we're modeling
the mean of the response directly.
So we would be fitting
a model to the log of y.
Where we're modeling the expected
value of the log of y.
This is different from
what we're modeling here,
here we're doing the log
of the expected value of y.
These are not equal, they're usually
similar, but they're not the same.
Another difference is that we have
a separate independent parameter for
the variants in a normal regression.
In Poisson regression, the variance
is automatically the same as lambda,
which may not always be appropriate,
as we'll see in an upcoming example.
As usual,
we can add more explanatory x variables
to the Poisson regression framework.
They can be continuous, categorical,
or they could be counts themselves.
[MUSIC]